article cloudfront cdk (#5)
PChol22/kumo-articles: blog-posts/cdk/portfolio/article.md

---
published: false
title: 'Easily deploy your portfolio website with AWS CDK 😎'
cover_image:
description: ''
tags: serverless, tutorial, frontend, aws
canonical_url:
---

## TL;DR

> In this article, I am going to explain how to deploy a portfolio website (can be plain html+css, built react etc...) to the AWS cloud. The aim is to be able to access this website using my own domain name: https://www.pchol.fr, and a HTTPS endpoint, in order to meet the current industry standards.

Reviewer: Quelques suggestions : 
- "In this article, I am going to" -> c'est très verbeux et formel (C'est ma première impression en tout cas) : utiliser le présent plutôt ?
- Le de https://www.pchol.fr, c'est de rediriger vers ta page ? Si oui, tu peux mettre un lien (et ajouter du contenu sur ta page ? 😇 ), si non, attention car tout le monde va aller check ton site 😄

Author: faut que je fasse un mini portfolio sur mon site ce sera fait d'ici mercredi

Reviewer: pas l'air d'avoir besoin de mettre un lien explicite en fait !

To reach this goal, I will use the AWS CDK (Cloud Development Kit) combined with Typescript, to provision a 100% "Infrastructure as Code" CloudFront application serving my website all around the world. Here is a quick look of what the architecture of the app will look like at the end:

![CloudFront architecture](./assets/architecture.png 'CloudFront architecture')

> From the networking and DNS records to the frontend files hosted online, everything will be defined inside a single Typescript file: this is the power of AWS CDK! I will go through every step of the process with detailed code in this article, but you can find the end product on my [github repository] if needed.

Reviewer: Il manque le lien du github repo ?

Reviewer 2: Nope, il est à la fin du fichier

> From the networking and DNS records to the frontend files hosted online, everything will be defined inside a single Typescript file: this is the power of AWS CDK! I will go through every step of the process with detailed code in this article, but you can find the end product on my [github repository] if needed.

Reviewer 2: En cliquant sur le lien, j'arrive sur ton repo :+1: En revanche, le README ne contient pas d'infos utiles

Author: yes je vais MAJ ça

> ## Set-up a typescript CDK project

Reviewer: Truc de pointilleux : je crois qu'on dit "TypeScript" ;) En tout cas, c'est sympa d'être cohérent sur tout l'article !

> _> To use the CDK, you first have to configure an AWS profile in your CLI. The [official documentation][aws credentials doc] is very easy to follow if you need help._

Reviewer: lien ;)

Author: les liens sont en bas c'est un raccourci !

Run these 2 commands in your CLI to setup your CDK project.

```sh
mkdir portfolio && cd portfolio

> npm i -g cdk

Reviewer 2: Est-ce qu'on peut arriver au même résultat sans installer cdk globalement ? Si oui, c'est peut-être l'option à privilégier. Pour installer un paquet npm globalement, il faut les droits root et ça pourrait en décourager certains, surtout les non familiers de npm

Author: npx sinon jsp si c'est mieux. Mais pour créer from scratch compliqué sinon

cdk init --language typescript
```

`cdk init --language typescript` creates a base typescript repository with the following structure.

```sh
portfolio
│   .gitignore
│   cdk.json
│   package.json
│   package-lock.json
│   ts-config.json
└───bin
│   └───portfolio.ts
└───front
│   └───src
│       └───index.html
│       └───styles.css
└───lib
│   └───portfolio-stack.ts
└───node-modules
```

- `bin` folder contains the different stacks of your project. This is where I can set environment variables like the AWS accountId or region.
- `lib` folder contains the details of my stacks. I only have one, and it's where I will provision all the necessary resources to deploy my static website.
- `cdk.json` contains the global CDK configuration. For this simple use-case, there will be no need to modify it.

> - I manually added the directory `front/src`, it contains my built website (here it's a simple html+css site, but it can be built react or angular for example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I manually added the directory `front/src` which contains my built website (here it's a simple HTML+CSS site, but it can be built with React or Angular for example)
```

ou 

```suggestion
- I manually added the directory `front/src`. It contains my built website (here it's a simple HTML+CSS site, but it can be built with React or Angular for example)
```

Reviewer: C'est assez déroutant de voir la structure cdk en premier (je me suis dit "tiens c'est bizarre, je ne me rappelais pas du dossier "front" quand tu démarres un construct cdk... 🤔 "), peut-être inverser ? Ou dire que tu vas créer cette structure ?

> **⚠️ Your CDK application must be deployed to region us-east-1 (you will see later why) (it's not an issue for non-americans don't worry). To enable it, add the following snippet in bin/portfolio.ts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**⚠️ Your CDK application must be deployed to region `us-east-1` (you will see later why) (it's not an issue for non-americans don't worry). To enable it, add the following snippet in `bin/portfolio.ts`**
```
Doublé de parenthèses qui se suivent, peut-être en retirer une paire ?

> **⚠️ Your CDK application must be deployed to region us-east-1 (you will see later why) (it's not an issue for non-americans don't worry). To enable it, add the following snippet in bin/portfolio.ts**

Reviewer 2: Je ne comprends pas très bien 'it's not an issue for non-americans don't worry'. 
```suggestion
**⚠️ Your CDK application must be deployed to region us-east-1 (you will see later why) (still ok for non-american people, don't worry ;)). To enable it, add the following snippet in bin/portfolio.ts**
```

```typescript
new PortfolioStack(app, 'PortfolioStack', {
  // To be added
  env: {
    region: 'us-east-1',
  },
  // End
});
```

To finish the set-up, run the following command in your CLI:

```sh
cdk bootstrap
```

> `cdk bootstrap` deploys on your AWS account the minimal necessary resources to be able to later deploy your full app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cdk bootstrap` deploys on your AWS account the necessary resources to be able to later deploy your full app.
```

> [aws credentials doc]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/setup-credentials.html

Reviewer: lien à formater ?

## Upload your portfolio on the AWS cloud

> First step to host my portfolio on AWS is to create a container hosting the website's files. The easiest solution is to use AWS S3 and to provision a new Bucket containing these files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First step to host my portfolio on AWS is to create a container hosting the website's files. The easiest solution is to use AWS S3 and to provision a new bucket containing these files.
```
?

> I need to specify the path of the base html file of my website (`index.html`). It is also one of the rare cases where I need to set `publicReadAccess` to `true` because the content is public (I want everyone to have access to my portfolio).

Reviewer 2: Si tu utilises CloudFront, ce n'est pas nécessaire que ton fichier soit public. Au contraire, s'il est privé, ça garantit que le trafic passera par CloudFront.

Author: en effet avec les OAI / OAC on peut faire ça, mais c'est pas très bien intégré avec le CDK pour l'instant. Je vais mettre un disclaimer dans l'article, sachant que pour le use-case d'un site statique c'est pas hyper important

> I have another constraint: I want the content of this bucket to always contain the latest version of the website's source code. CDK offers a construct name `BucketDeployment` (it's a Lambda function under the hood), that replaces the content of the bucket with the files found at a specified location (`../front/src`) of my repository on each deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have another constraint: I want the content of this bucket to always contain the latest version of the website's source code. CDK offers a construct name `BucketDeployment` (it's a Lambda function under the hood), that replaces the content of the bucket with the files found at a specified location (`../front/src`) of my repository at each deployment.
```

> I have another constraint: I want the content of this bucket to always contain the latest version of the website's source code. CDK offers a construct name `BucketDeployment` (it's a Lambda function under the hood), that replaces the content of the bucket with the files found at a specified location (`../front/src`) of my repository on each deployment.

Reviewer 2: C'est un peu tricky à comprendre. Pas moyen de déployer des fichiers dans S3 sans passer par une Lambda function ?

Added together, the stack definition of `PortfolioStack`, in the file `lib/portfolio-stack.ts` should look like this:

```typescript
export class PortfolioStack extends Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    const FRONT_SRC_PATH = path.join(__dirname, '../front/src');

    // Create the bucket hosting the website
    const staticWebsiteHostingBucket = new Bucket(this, 'StaticWebsiteHostingBucket', {
      publicReadAccess: true,
      websiteIndexDocument: 'index.html',
    });

    // Sync the bucket's content with the codebase
    new BucketDeployment(this, 'StaticWebsiteHostingBucketSync', {

>       sources: [Source.asset(FRONT_SRC_PATH)],

Reviewer: on peut ajouter un dossier avec ce construct ?
ça vaut le coup de préciser, parce qu'il y a quand même peu de sites avec un seul fichier ;)

    });
  }
}
```

Now, let's run a first deployment with the CLI command:

```sh
cdk deploy
```

It will create the bucket and fill it with the index.html file found in my local repository. I can see it in my AWS console!

![bucket content](./assets/bucket.png 'bucket content')

## Access the portfolio from a custom domain name

My portfolio is now uploaded on the AWS cloud, but it would be nicer if anyone could access it using my domain name (pchol.fr). If you do not own a domain name, AWS Route 53 offers the possibility to buy ones for a fair price. Some suffixes like `.dev` are not available on AWS, you can buy them anywhere else you want, the important thing is to have access to the DNS records after it's yours. From my experience, providers like [gandi][gandi] meet this requirement.

How to link my S3 Bucket with `pchol.fr`? It is done in 4 simple steps:

- Create a Route 53 hosted zone that will contain the custom DNS records needed to create this connection.
- Create a HTTPS certificate, otherwise, my portfolio will only be accessible via http.
- Create a CloudFront distribution, allowing to distribute my website all around the world, and to use my new HTTPS certificate.

> - Create DNS A records in my hosted zone, to redirect traffic from `pchol.fr` and `www.pchol.fr` to the CloudFront distribution.

Reviewer: Pourquoi `A` et pas `CNAME` ?
(à voir s'il faut rentrer dans les détails)

Seems complicated ? These 4 steps can be coded in a few lines thanks to the CDK, everything left to do is to launch the deployment!

Let's create the hosted zone, by adding this snippet of code under the S3 Bucket definition:

```typescript
const DOMAIN_NAME = 'pchol.fr'; // your domain name

// Create a Route53 hosted zone to later create DNS records

> // ⚠️ Manual action required: when the hosted zone was created, copy its NS records into your domain's name servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// ⚠️ Manual action required: when the hosted zone is created, copy its NS records into your domain's name servers
```

Si tu fais du full AWS, tu as besoin de cette étape ?

const hostedZone = new HostedZone(this, 'DomainHostedZone', {
  zoneName: DOMAIN_NAME,
});
```

Then deploy this change to create the hosted zone.

```sh
cdk deploy
```

I have to perform **the only manual input required in this tutorial (⚠️ very important ⚠️)**: after deployment, Route 53 will create a `NS` record containing 4 values in my new hosted zone, I have to copy them into my DNS's name servers (in order to prove my ownership of the domain).

_NS records in the new hosted zone_ ![NS records](./assets/records.png 'NS records')

_Copied into the domain name servers_ ![Name servers](./assets/name-servers.png 'Name servers')

On the screenshots, I did it using a domain name bought on AWS, but it can also be achieved on other providers like [gandi][gandi].

Now that I'm done with the domain, I can create the certificate, and set the validation method to `fromDns`. It will automatically communicate with my freshly created hosted zone to validate the authenticity of the certificate.

> _⚠️ The certificate MUST be created in the region us-east-1 to be compatible with CloudFront, that's why I deploy all my resources in this region. CloudFront allows for "at edge" delivery, which means that it's not a problem if your visitors are not in the US._

Reviewer: pourquoi est-ce qu'on utilise cloudfront ? et pas directement un lien entre lien S3 et un record DNS ?

Est-ce que cloudfront c'est pas overkill pour un portfolio ?

Des questions qu'un lecteur pourrait se poser en tout cas !

```typescript
const WWW_DOMAIN_NAME = `www.${DOMAIN_NAME}`;

// Create the HTTPS certificate (⚠️ must be in region us-east-1 ⚠️)
const httpsCertificate = new Certificate(this, 'HttpsCertificate', {
  domainName: DOMAIN_NAME,
  subjectAlternativeNames: [WWW_DOMAIN_NAME],
  validation: CertificateValidation.fromDns(hostedZone),
});
```

> Then, time for the CloudFront distribution. It will allow me to distribute the content of the bucket to my end users all around the world in record time using caching. I specify my bucket as the origin, enable a REDIRECT_TO_HTTPS policy, set the domain names (with the addition of the www subdomain for optimal compatibility with all browsers), and finally reference my new https certificate.

Reviewer: Beaucoup d'infos dans la même phrase, un découpage avec des puces pourrait être plus lisible et ingérable ?

```typescript
// Create the CloudFront distribution linked to the website hosting bucket and the HTTPS certificate
const cloudFrontDistribution = new Distribution(this, 'CloudFrontDistribution', {

>   defaultBehavior: {

Reviewer 2: Ça vaut pe le cout d'ajouter la security headers policy. Est-ce que ton déploiement est compliant sls-mentor ?

Author: I also specified an optional responseHeadersPolicy, with the ID corresponding to the AWS `Managed-SecurityHeadersPolicy`. It's a quick win to improve security in my distribution. (This best practice is part of [sls-mentor][sls-mentor], feel free to check it out!)

```typescript
// Create the CloudFront distribution linked to the website hosting bucket and the HTTPS certificate
const cloudFrontDistribution = new Distribution(this, 'CloudFrontDistribution', {
  defaultBehavior: {
    origin: new S3Origin(staticWebsiteHostingBucket, {}),
    viewerProtocolPolicy: ViewerProtocolPolicy.REDIRECT_TO_HTTPS,
    responseHeadersPolicy: { responseHeadersPolicyId: '67f7725c-6f97-4210-82d7-5512b31e9d03' },
  },
  domainNames: [DOMAIN_NAME, WWW_DOMAIN_NAME],
  certificate: httpsCertificate,
});
```

Author: en effet !

    origin: new S3Origin(staticWebsiteHostingBucket, {}),
    viewerProtocolPolicy: ViewerProtocolPolicy.REDIRECT_TO_HTTPS,
  },
  domainNames: [DOMAIN_NAME, WWW_DOMAIN_NAME],
  certificate: httpsCertificate,
});
```

Last step, redirect requests heading to pchol.fr and www.pchol.fr to the CloudFront distribution. I create 2 DNS A records in my hosted zone, which have the CloudFront distribution as target.

```typescript
// Add DNS records to the hosted zone to redirect from the domain name to the CloudFront distribution
new ARecord(this, 'CloudFrontRedirect', {
  zone: hostedZone,
  target: RecordTarget.fromAlias(new CloudFrontTarget(cloudFrontDistribution)),
  recordName: DOMAIN_NAME,
});

// Same from www. sub-domain
new ARecord(this, 'CloudFrontWWWRedirect', {
  zone: hostedZone,

>   target: RecordTarget.fromAlias(new CloudFrontTarget(cloudFrontDistribution)),

Reviewer: code à factoriser avec celui du dessus ?

  recordName: WWW_DOMAIN_NAME,
});
```

And I am done! Last step is to deploy everything one more time.

```sh
cdk deploy
```

_Be aware that changes to DNS records can take up to 24 hours to be propagated, do not worry if the deployment is successful but your website doesn't work instantly_

Time to test it! These 4 links should all redirect to the same website, always using the https protocol, regardless of what I specify:

- http://pchol.fr
- http://www.pchol.fr
- https://pchol.fr
- https://www.pchol.fr

> [SCREENSHOT OF EXAMPLE PORTFOLIO]

Reviewer: Une dernière suggestion : je trouverais ça cool d'avoir un visuel du schéma d'archi de ce que t'as construit à chaque étape et/ou à la fin, pour faire référence au schéma du début (que t'as oublié quand t'es à la fin de l'article !)
